Release strategy: alpha, beta, rc (#1758)
instructlab/instructlab: docs/release-strategy.md

## Versioning Scheme

Releases use a `X.Y.Z`, [PEP 440-compatible](https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/) numbering scheme.

X-stream release are for major releases. At this stage in the project a major release has not been cut and we expect each release to be a new Y-stream.

Z-stream releases are meant for critical bug and documentation fixes. Z-stream releases are cut as maintainers see fit.

> A final release may be preceded by a pre-release (alpha `X.Y.ZaN`, beta `X.Y.ZbN`, or release candidate `X.Y.ZrcN`). PyPI and pip automatically recognize them as pre-release. Pip ignores pre-releases unless the user explicitly requests a pre-release with `pip install --pre` or `pip install instructlab==0.16.0a1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A release may be preceded by a pre-release, e.g.
- Alpha (`X.Y.ZaN`)
- Beta (`X.Y.ZbN`)
- Release Candidate (`X.Y.ZrcN`)

PyPI and pip automatically recognize these types of tags as pre-release. Pip ignores pre-releases unless the user explicitly requests a pre-release with `pip install --pre` or `pip install instructlab==0.16.0a1`.
```

## Git Branches and Tags

> Every `X.Y` release stream gets a new branch `release-X.Y`. The release branch is created with first beta, release candidate, or final `X.Y.0` release.

Reviewer 2: Do we need alphas, betas, and RCs? We want an alpha today to avoid breaking community users while we test some downstream build machinery. The pre-release type doesn't really matter for that, so we could just always use alphas. Maybe there's a reason to use different types upstream, though?

Author: I would like to start using RCs from here on out with a couple of days of testing between rc1 and final.

- alphas are cut from the main branch and can have known bugs
- betas are cut from a release branch and should have stable API and requirements
- rcs should be stable. When everything goes right, then `1.2.3rc1` tag will become the `1.2.3` tag without any modifications.

Reviewer 2: OK, that makes sense.

> Every `X.Y` release stream gets a new branch `release-X.Y`. The release branch is created with first beta, release candidate, or final `X.Y.0` release.

Author: good catch!

> Every `X.Y` release stream gets a new branch `release-X.Y`. The release branch is created with first beta, release candidate, or final `X.Y.0` release.

Reviewer: Yup, release branches are of the form `release-vX.Y`

> Every `X.Y` release stream gets a new branch `release-X.Y`. The release branch is created with first beta, release candidate, or final `X.Y.0` release.

Reviewer 3: This is the point I made in the CLI call this week. When we are ready to make an RC build, we need to make it from a release branch and not main. This then opens up main for work. I am not as concerned about beta releases from main but I am also ok with saying beta releases need to come from a release branch.

Each release, `X.Y.Z`, exists as a tag named `vX.Y.Z`.

> Alpha releases are tagged as `vX.Y.Za1`, `vX.Y.Za2`, and so on. Alpha releases are created from the main branch, **not** from a `release-X.Y` branch.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Alpha releases are tagged as `vX.Y.Zalpha1`, `vX.Y.Za2`, and so on. Alpha releases are created from the main branch, **not** from a `release-X.Y` branch.
```

Going with fullname is clearer, it's cheap and users will immediately understand.

Author: > I'm sorry, Dave. I'm afraid I can't do that.
> HAL 9000

We have to follow https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/#pre-releases

Reviewer 4: 🤷🏻‍♂️

> Beta releases are tagged as `vX.Y.Zb1`, `vX.Y.Zb2`, and so on from `release-X.Y` branch.

Reviewer 2: I've always used a tag as the base of a branch, too. So, tag a beta, make the release branch from the same point, then future tags for that release series are on the branch and clearly after only that initial branching version and not intermingled with pre-releases of other versions on the main branch.

The following are the steps for how Y-stream and Z-stream releases gets cut.

### Y-Stream alpha pre-release (`X.Y.0a1`)

1. Determine a commit on the main branch that will serve as the basis for the next release - most of the time this should be the latest commit.
1. Validate the release branch with an [E2E test](ci.md).
1. Create a new release on GitHub targeting the release branch and using the latest Y-Stream tag as the previous release (e.g. `0.15.1` precedes `0.16.0a1`). If there have been other pre-release, then use the previous pre-release.
1. Announce release via the following:
    - The `#announce` channel on Slack

>     - The `announce` mailing list

Reviewer: Do we want to do as broad of an announcement for pre-releases as we do regular releases?
